CEO Jamie Dimon says economy remains resilient but warns of uncertainty

JPMorgan Chase JPM -1.83%decrease; red down pointing triangle reported a 12% jump in profit that beat expectations, reaping the benefits of steady consumer spending on Main Street and surge in trading and dealmaking on Wall Street.

Chief Executive Jamie Dimon, long known for sounding the alarm on risks he sees in the economy, cautioned that there seems to be a “heightened degree of uncertainty stemming from complex geopolitical conditions, tariffs and trade uncertainty, elevated asset prices and the risk of sticky inflation.”

The bank said its credit losses for the third quarter were $3.4 billion, the highest since the first half of 2020. Still, Dimon said the U.S. economy remained resilient despite some “signs of softening, particularly in job growth.” 

In a call with reporters, Dimon said that the economic impact of tariffs “has been less than people expected, including us,” though he added that the final outcome of negotiations has yet to be seen. On Tuesday, U.S. stock indexes fell after U.S.-China trade tensions re-escalated.

JPMorgan’s sprawling consumer banking arm brought in more revenue as consumers continued to spend in the third quarter. Debit and credit card spending rose 9%. Jeremy Barnum, JPMorgan’s chief financial officer, said 2025 has been “the best year ever” for new account acquisitions for its Chase Sapphire credit-card franchise, aimed at affluent customers.

Revolving balances on credit cards also climbed, as they did at Citigroup and Wells Fargo. But in the short term, it boosted JPMorgan’s profit from lending, while delinquencies declined.

Barnum said JPMorgan’s exposure to Tricolor, an auto lending company that collapsed in September amid allegations of fraud and accounting impropriety, had led to $170 million in charge-offs.

“It’s not our finest moment,” Dimon said.

Tricolor’s failure has also raised concerns that lower-income consumers are struggling to afford payments as wages stagnate and unemployment ticks higher. Dimon said on Tuesday that while the losses from consumer and wholesale banking were worse in the quarter, “they really just returned to what we considered normal.” But he added that “these are early signs there might be some excess” in financial markets.

The Wall Street side of JPMorgan’s business also continued to rake in money as traders navigated the uncertainty around global trade sparked by President Trump’s trade war. Revenue from trading and its markets businesses rose 25%.

Executives have also been warming up to the new climate under Trump and feeling more confident about pursuing mergers and taking companies public. JPMorgan said its investment banking fees jumped 16% in the quarter from a year ago. Goldman Sachs and Citigroup also said Tuesday that investment banking fees and trading revenue surged in the third quarter.

JPMorgan’s net income for the quarter was $14.39 billion, topping the $13.54 billion analysts expected. Earnings per share were $5.07, versus the $4.85 per share analysts expected.

Total revenue rose 9% to $46.43 billion, also beating analysts’ expectations.

Write to Alexander Saeedy at alexander.saeedy@wsj.com
