The bank’s profit rose 23%, with consumer spending up and investment banking results booming

Bank of America BAC -3.52%decrease; red down pointing triangle reported third-quarter earnings and revenue that bested analysts’ expectations, thanks to healthy consumer activity and a busy summer in its investment banking division.

Profit rose 23% to $8.47 billion. That amounted to $1.06 per share, beating estimates of 95 cents per share.

Net revenue was up 11% to $28.09 billion, compared with forecasts of $27.52 billion. The bank also posted record-high net interest income, the profits it makes from lending, which came in at $15.2 billion.

Third-quarter earnings from the big banks this week have so far shown that the economy is humming along at a healthy clip. Companies are borrowing and investing more and consumers appear to be mostly unaffected by higher tariffs on trade between the U.S. and other countries.

“We do see in our data that the consumer is spending more and that feels consistent with a growth economy,” finance chief Alastair Borthwick said in a call with reporters on Wednesday. “We’ve seen more in the way of certainty around tax…[and] trade, and that certainty tends to be quite good for our investment banking business.”

Bank of America’s sprawling consumer operation continued to churn out healthy profits.

Even as the Federal Reserve has moved to cut interest rates, the bank has also been able to expand the profit margin between its low-cost bank consumer deposits and the amount it charges on loans, driving up its profit. It forecast more growth for its net interest income for the rest of the year.

Consumers kept spending, bolstering the bank’s performance. Combined credit- and debit-card spend was $245 billion, up 6%. Credit-card loans outstanding were $102.11 billion, up 1% from a year ago, a sign consumers are carrying more debt.

But loan losses have stayed low. Net charge-offs of loans were down to $1.4 billion, or 11%, thanks to fewer credit-card and commercial real estate losses. Even despite the high-profile bankruptcies of auto lender Tricolor and auto supplier First Brands, the latter of which Bank of America had lent to, the bank said it wasn’t too worried about broader deterioration.

Just like other banks, the Wall Street operations at Bank of America also boomed. A strong stock market has helped banks rake in fees as they manage their clients’ investments and trade in and out of positions. Big acquisitions and initial public offerings are back. And banks are helping power the artificial-intelligence boom, from debt underwriting to financing purchases of processing chips.

Still, some bankers warned that there are signs of excess in financial markets, as well as lurking geopolitical risks that are difficult to forecast but could have serious financial consequences if they materialize.

Bank of America’s investment banking fees were $2 billion, up 43% with big gains in deal work, debt and equity fundraisings. Revenue from trading was up 9%. 

Bank of America reported that its commercial loan portfolio grew 13% versus a year earlier, mostly thanks to institutional clients that work with its markets division borrowing to trade.

Shares in the bank were up more than 4% in premarket trading. Bank of America has lagged behind other big banks this year, with shares up 15% year to date, compared with 26% at JPMorgan Chase and 43% at Citigroup.

Write to Alexander Saeedy at alexander.saeedy@wsj.com

Corrections & Amplifications
Bank of America’s net charge-offs of loans were down to $1.4 billion in the third quarter of 2025. An earlier version of this article incorrectly said they were down to $1.3 billion. (Corrected on Oct. 15)

